[WHOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The creator.
Who or what might be the
creator of all that exists?
Humans have pondered
this question
since the beginning
of time, hoping
to understand their own
purpose by looking to the sky.
What if this
explanation is so big?
What if our universe
is one gigantic cell
living in an organism,
a living organism that
has many cells, otherwise
known as many universes,
and these many universes
make up a living body.
If we take, for
instance, the context
of the universe compared
to the human cell,
we have a cell made
up of a molecule.
A molecule consists
of atoms, and an atom
consists of electrons that
form around a nucleus.
This looks similar to our own
understanding of the universe.
There is a famous
quote from the Emerald
Tablet of Hermes
Trismegistus that
states "as above, so below."
What if the concept
of the Garden of Eden
is just the beginning of
a much bigger picture?
What if we are all
part of the Creator,
from the very first cell to
the universe we see today?
If that might be true,
how do the ancient texts
reveal this knowledge?
Maybe the answer to our question
is buried right below our nose.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> 1945.
It's an intriguing
date, of course,
because that's the end
of the Second World War.
We're moving into a new era
following the Second World War.
The Gnostic texts are found
in upper Egypt, almost exactly
the same time the
Dead Sea Scrolls are
found in Israel as well.
Nag Hammadi is a small village
along the Nile River in Egypt.
And a young boy was
tasked by his mother
to find kindling
which was in very
short supply, because
there are very few trees.
There's no forests that
grow along the Nile River
in that part of Egypt.
Being very resourceful,
he went to what
he knew were old
gravesites and old tombs.
And he found papyrus
books that were bound.
These are the Gnostic texts.
Now, it wasn't until
someone recognized,
a neighbor recognized
what it was
that he had that the Department
of Antiquities in Cairo
became aware.
And of course they
moved very quickly
to preserve the
remaining documents.
So the Nag Hammadi Library,
it is the most complete record
of the Old Testament.
And the reason it's
so controversial
is because it contains many
of the books that have not
been seen since the
Church edited them
in the fourth century.
>> Now, I don't want to
get mystical or spooky,
but it's as though something is
at work to not allow us to be
blinded and silenced.
Something is at work to
allow these ancient ideas
to come back into the world.
And Gnosticism has indeed
come back into the world.
>> I'll try to
reconstruct the situation.
In the early years
of Christianity,
really from sort
of 30 AD onwards,
through to about 400
AD, there are actually
many different
kinds of Christians,
many different sects
that regard themselves
as Christians, as
followers of Christ,
but they had very
different views.
Amongst those early
Christian sects
were a group that called
themselves Gnostics.
They believed that there is
a divine spark in humanity.
The Gnostic mission was to
liberate that divine spark.
To provide us with
the saving knowledge
to lead us to the
revelation that
would help us to understand
the true nature of things.
Not the illusory
nature that's been
created to hoodwink all of
us, but the real true nature
of things.
>> What is life for Elon Musk?
>> Now you can see a video
game that's photorealistic,
almost photorealistic, and
millions of people playing
simultaneously.
And you see where things are
going with virtual reality.
If you extrapolate that
out into the future
with any rate of progress
at all, then eventually,
those games will be
indistinguishable from reality.
They'll be so
realistic, you will not
be able to tell the
difference between that game
and the reality as we know it.
Well, how do we know that that
didn't happen in the past,
and that we're not in one
of those games ourselves?
>> Some believe this concept of
a simulated universe originated
from these ancient Gnostic texts
that suddenly were discovered
in 1945.
These lost books named the
creator of the universe
as an aeon named Sophia.
Sophia was considered
to be a frequency,
and her frequency would
manifest into certain humans
and the material realm.
This myth of Sophia
has challenged
some to look at the
universe differently
than they have before.
>> The manifestation of Sophia,
the personification of Sophia,
might be representative of
fractal energy and the fact
that fractal energy fills the
gaps between the symmetries
of the very small
and the very large.
And it's this energy
that we're basically
saying is controlling
this ancient technology.
That all of this
ancient technology
is based upon that same idea.
That it goes on and on through
every single ancient teaching,
this idea that there is this
all-encompassing, unified
energetic field.
It makes a lot of
sense that that
would be equated to Sophia.
Fractal energy has a
very deep relationship
to the golden mean ratio.
And the golden mean ratio
is present in human DNA.
That's what our DNA
is based off of.
And it's through this
fractal energy and the fact
that the golden mean ratio
basically keeps it in check
and keeps it going in
a certain direction
that we're able to derive a lot
of new technology even today.
It's something that they're
beginning to rediscover,
something Nikola Tesla had
come across in his work.
But it's interesting that
these ancient civilizations
were recording information like
this and doing it in such a way
that a parable could back up
actual scientific information.
>> Could the ancient Gnostic
texts be explaining not only
the Creator but the frequency
in which the Creator exists
through mathematics
and quantum physics?
>> This third dimension is what
we consider to be a holographic
reality.
Now, it's not just
me saying this.
A lot of scientists
have come forward now,
a lot of scientists involved
in supersymmetry and quantum
physics, quantum
mechanics, stating
that the nature of the
reality of the universe itself
appears to be
holographic in nature.
So what scientists
did was they did
an experiment called the
double slit experiment, where
they put two little,
tiny microscopic slits,
and they put
photons on the back.
And they shot these photons
through these slits.
But when they weren't
looking, the photon
created a wave pattern on the
back wall of this experiment.
So they said, why?
How can this be?
How can individual photons
create a wave pattern?
So they went back and put
a looking device, a camera,
to see how the photons were
going through these slits
to create a wave pattern.
They wanted to know
how that could be.
But when they did
that, when they looked,
it created a digital
pattern on the back wall.
So all of a sudden, they--
it was a wild moment.
The actual prospect of
looking, in other words,
conscious intervention,
can change matter,
can change the shape
of the universe.
So basically, it tells us
that consciousness is really
what-- is all that
exists in the universe.
The universe is
pure consciousness.
And what consciousness
has actually done,
it has actually
recreated itself,
or it actually split
itself into pieces,
to experience
itself subjectively.
So consciousness wants to go
out, and it wants to create.
And what it has done, it has
gone out with these energies,
and it has created subjectively
humans, planets, galaxies,
so that it can experience
itself from another perspective.
And this is what we take from
it from the quantum level,
in terms of these
Sophia energies
and some of these
Gnostic energies.
It appears that consciousness
is the only thing that
really exists, and everything
else seems to be an illusion.
Nassim Haramein has been doing
some really interesting work
which does tie in very much to
the old view of the ancients
and the Gnostics
in that it explains
how creation transpires.
What he is talking
about, in more
of a metaphysics
or quantum level,
is how existence comes to be.
It's cosmogony.
So it's how the
cosmos comes to form.
Which to the Gnostics was the
flow of reality from eternity
into nature and back.
This flow is
actually represented
by the Goddess Sophia.
She is the flow
of reality itself,
coming out from the
preexisting state of spirit.
>> But if this is true, why
would this understanding
of the universe and an aeon
named Sophia be hidden beneath
the sand for so long?
>> There's that movie,
"The Usual Suspects."
There's a line in the movie--
>> The greatest trick the devil
ever pulled was convincing
the world he didn't exist.
>> Gnostics took it
one step further.
The greatest trick
the devil ever played
was to convince the
world that he is God.
In other words, from
the Gnostic point
of view, what we have been
worshiping for thousands
of years isn't God at all.
It's a demonic force.
>> The Sumerian texts allude
to the same principle,
that a great administrator named
Sat-an looked over the people
of the Garden of Eden.
His name in the Sumerian
text was the God Enlil.
And his hopes were to
enslave the human race.
He then appears in the Garden
as Yahweh, the biblical god.
The serpent in the
garden, however,
was another Sumerian
god named Enki,
whose desire was to free the
human race through knowledge.
How did this concept
of good and evil
get so flipped upside down?
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> In 2003, we discovered a
degeneration in the brain that
seem to be programmed to
a molecule called PP1.
We don't know why.
We cannot explain why.
But at a certain point, humans
have this incredible ability
to forget.
This molecule affects
the brain, and it
is a degeneration of memory.
I think that there is a
programmed blockage which was
performed on the human brain.
What is interesting
about great myths,
whether it is for Native
Americans or for Africans,
very much as well, is
that they have the ability
to constantly recite those
myths, their history,
so as not to forget.
Some people, the
Hebrews as well,
probably, have managed
to have this ability
to pass on information
across generations.
>> Could there really be a
molecule that blocks our true
remembering of who we are?
Was this a programmed
manipulation
of our genetic code?
This might explain
our constant search
for where we as humans
originated from and who
or what might be God.
>> The Garden of
Eden, to the Gnostics,
refers to the center principle
from which all creation
springs.
So it's the preexisting
spirit of God, so to speak.
So this is before
time and space.
So it's the circle whose
center is everywhere
and whose circumference
is nowhere.
So everything that
exists in this world
preexists within
what the Gnostics
refer to as the Pleroma,
which means fullness.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> It's hard to imagine where
the Pleroma could be located
with our current point of view.
Some say that it is
linked to dimensions.
But I think that inherently,
the idea of Pleroma
is more linked to frequency,
another frequency.
>> If we go back to our
understanding of quantum
physics and the
creation of matter,
could this frequency transcend
into our physical universe
today?
And how do the Gnostic
texts explain this?
>> There is a preexistent
tension within--
in the Pleroma where
the archetypal deities
or archangels almost
demand their expression
or substantiation within the
playing fields of creation
itself.
Because they preexist
in this state of light
that they almost need
to express their--
these ideal forms
that they represent.
So what Sophia the
myth kind of represents
is the urge for them
to create themselves.
>> The goddess Sophia, the aeon,
Sophia, whose name, of course,
means wisdom.
And she enters a
trance-like dream state.
And in that dream state,
she envisages a singularity,
the Anthropos, humanity.
>> So she exits the Pleroma
and then falls into a state
of deficiency.
And in that state of
deficiency, she splits.
So there's a higher
version of Sophia
that remains in the
Pleroma, which is kind
of like her celestial twin.
And then a lower Sophia
exits and becomes
the physical
universe, the cosmic,
the soul of the world,
which is deficient,
because now evil is
introduced into that,
or a deficiency or a corruption.
>> As a result of
that fall tearing,
tearing through the layers
and levels of reality,
is created the entity that the
Gnostics call the Demiurge,
and he is also the creator
of the physical Earth
and of the beings
who dwell upon it.
It is Sophia's
work that inserted
into the heart of
humanity, deep within us,
is this divine spark.
That we are fundamentally
creatures of spirit
immersed in matter.
>> If Sophia is the creator
of our divine spark,
then could the Demiurge be the
creator of the matter we exist
in?
Is he the architect
of our reality?
>> The Demiurge becomes
a representation
of Sophia's irrational passions.
So Sophia's irrational
passions takes
on the form of the
Demiurge, which also becomes
the rulers of the Archons.
>> According to Graham Hancock,
the Demiurge is what humans
might refer to as the Biblical
god or creator of the universe.
And this creator created
himself, angels, or demons,
depending on how you look at it.
And these Archons help
keep order in the universe.
>> The Goddess Sophia is
incarnated in the Earth itself,
but the Earth is the
domain of the Demiurge.
And the project of the Demiurge
is to get rid of that divine
spark in humanity,
to snuff it out.
To stamp it out forever,
so that we become entirely
his creatures.
>> The Archons, which were
created by the Demiurge,
according to the Gnostic text,
stand between the human race
and the great architect himself.
In most cases,
they are considered
to be semi-hostile
angels and demons.
>> The Demiurge's motives
were not that good,
according to the Gnostics.
And then the Demiurge put
and created these Archons
to be in charge of making
sure that the universe stays
intact as a prison for souls.
>> Every generation
is a step lower,
further from the
perfect monad holiness.
And they created
worlds of their own.
Now, they were only one
step above pure evil.
So these were corrupted worlds.
>> In the Gnostic text,
specifically the Apocryphon
of John, it gives a detailed
account of the various Archons.
In this chapter, it
suggests there are seven.
>> These actually correspond
very nicely with the seven
planets.
And the actual name of the
planets in our tradition
have very different names
when they are called Archons
in the Gnostic tradition.
Saturn, in the
Gnostic tradition,
is called Yaldabaoth or Samael.
Jupiter is called Iao.
Mars is called Sabaoth.
Venus is called Astaphanos.
The sun is called Adonaios.
Mercury is called Elaios.
And the moon is called Horaios.
We now have an astrology
where the planets appear
to have influences
on the personality,
and they vary from
one to another.
We have this opportunity
to understand there
was a ghost in the machine.
Something is going on that takes
the apparent mundane reality
on the surface,
veneer level, and you
look past the veneer
level, and you
see there is an
organized plan in place.
>> Could the ghost in the
system be the energy of Sophia
reincarnating herself
into goddess archetypes?
And could these concepts of
the Demiurge and the Archons
coincide with some of the
motivations of the characters
in the Sumerian text?
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH] >>
This world is completely offset
compared to our way of thinking.
It really seems like
science fiction.
When we watch science
fiction movies nowadays,
we can find that the same
themes are being explored.
In Egyptian Gnostic
texts, we find
a recurrent main character.
She is called Sophia.
And this Sophia will
become Tiamat, Tiamata,
from the Sumerian text.
Tiamata can be decomposed
in ti, ama, and ta.
The latter is not always added.
In very concrete terms,
it means the Lady of Life.
Ama is lady, and ti is life.
It is interesting to see
that right off, we get
that she is a supreme goddess.
Then we can actually find
her in different mythologies.
Tiamat is the archetype
of the mother goddess,
and as Sophia's spokesperson,
is all powerful.
And according to
the Sumerian texts,
she is going to create
herself a lineage of females
that we call Amashatum.
This could be translated
to the lizard mothers.
In the Sumerian
text, I think it's
important to note
that the Sophia
energy is going to create
a new being, named An.
You should know that the An
particle also means the sky.
That character is then
going to create a people
we find in Sumerian text.
It is important to
note that gods were
created in artificial matrices.
An creates Enki, and
then Enki creates
another son, who becomes An's
spokesperson for his agenda.
His name is Enlil.
And Enlil will ceaselessly
be against Enki,
in order to impede
him and his knowledge
from getting out to the humans.
As soon as An steps in,
things are going to change.
We can see that An
wants to overthrow
the matriarchal royalty
and enforce his own rule.
This marks an
important separation
in the history of
the Sumerian gods
and of the gods in general.
On the one hand, there is the
matriarchal energy with Tiamat,
with Sophia's energy.
And on the other
hand, these new gods,
fresh out of the
matrices, male gods,
who are going to
revolt against Tiamat.
We see Enlil going to fight
Tiamat, enforcing his power.
And this is what we find
in the "Enuma Elish."
>> The Sumerian texts suggest
that Tiamata was defeated
by Enlil, and he takes over as
ruler to instill the principles
of the false god.
In the Gnostic text,
however, it suggests
that the Sophia energy
that embodied Tiamata
was not defeated,
but rather ignored.
And the knowledge
of her existence
was taken over by the
knowledge of the Demiurge.
The Gnostic texts
explain to us that we
have been under the influence
of this great Archon who
is not the true creator
he fashions himself to be.
And because of this,
we suffered greatly
under our own false reality.
But the Sumerian texts remind
us that throughout this battle
of humanity, there's given to
us an ally by the name of Enki
who fights to keep the
Sophia frequency alive.
>> It is important to know that
the so-called Gnostic texts,
the ones from Nag Hammadi,
were all excavated in Egypt.
That is crucial information,
because the character of Enki
lived for a while in
ancient Mesopotamia,
but after a while was
in such disagreement
with Enlil, that
he left for Egypt.
He attempted civilizing mankind.
He is then found under
the name of Osiris.
These archives, probably
created by Enki,
usually depict events that
took place prior to the ones
that we find in Sumerian texts.
They are about the creation
before creation itself.
>> There is a return of
the Sophia to the logos,
or the godhead.
And when that return
happens, it is
described as being this
incredible burst of light that
actually changes the very
fabric of the bodies themselves.
This to me sounds
like another example
of the widespread
prophecies that we
see of this energy
released from the sun.
Greek and Roman
philosophers often
called the ekpyrosis, a massive
fire release from the sun.
So when we're looking
at this story of Sophia
and her redemption,
it seems that it
is another example of
the prophecies that
go all the way back to the
Greek texts, the Hindu texts,
in which we go through some
sort of massive transformation
in this sort of fallen state
of our solar system or humanity
and then brought
back up to a higher
spiritual level in some way.
>> Could the Gnostic texts be
supporting the meaning behind
the Sumerian creation story?
If the Gnostic texts are able to
explain our possible beginning
as humans and our current
state of simulated reality,
why do we still feel
lost in the system?
And will all this
understanding of who we are
and why we are here return?
>> The story of the fallen
Sophia does appear to mirror
the story of each of us in terms
of how we have become blinded
to the afterlife.
We became blinded to
higher consciousness.
We don't really understand
if we are going to live again
or if we have lived
before, and we
don't understand if there is a
purpose or plan for our lives
and for the greater universe.
>> It's hidden.
You can't really perceive it.
It hasn't become
substantiated yet.
It's becoming substantiated
through this life process
that we're living.
Which is kind of
like I like to think
that we live in the
greatest story ever told.
Like all these myths are--
we're living it, right?
Right now.
It's a living mythology.
And it's also a
collective universe.
It's all integrated.
Like, there's nothing--
the only thing
that separates us
from each other
and from nature and
from the divine is
our own misguided perception.
>> Our misguided perception
may have been the work
of the ancient gods, but there
is more evidence to support
that the original creators of
the Garden of Eden might have
planted a seed on Earth.
>> It's as though something
slipped past the redactors
in the Bible.
A little bit of truth came
through instead of all the lies
that the Demiurge has spread.
>> Up next, the Tree of Life
and its imprint on the world.
[MUSIC PLAYING]